---
layout: post
title: "What I Learned From My 'Hire Me' Web Page"
date: 2015-10-18 10:48
comments: true
categories: 
---

Occasionally, you'll see people put up a <a
href="http://jasonzimdars.com/svn/">"why you should hire me" page</a>,
such as this one that got Jason Zimdars a gig at <a
href="https://signalvnoise.com/posts/2709-sites-that-landed-jobs-at-37signals">37signals</a>. These
pages are sales pages, though they read a little differently from a <a
href="http://rebuilding-rails.com">sales page for a book</a>, say.

(If you don't believe that "hire me" is a sales page, <a
href="http://www.kalzumeus.com/2012/01/23/salary-negotiation/">I
recommend reading a bit more Patrick McKenzie</a>.)

These are usually pages for less-established entry-level people
&mdash; people who try using a sales page because they have to, not
because they want to.

And I thought, "hey, what if I tried that?" As a great fictitious man
once said, <a href="http://archives.erfworld.com/Book%201/121">&quot;we try
things. Occasionally they even work.&quot;</a>

So when <a href="http://onlive.com">my last company</a> went out of
business, I put <a href="http://static.angelbob.com/jobsearch_2015">a
"hire me" page together</a>. I had a little breathing room before
missing a paycheck, and reasonable savings. Why not try it?

## Yeah, Why Not Try It?

I didn't get much use out of it in my job search - having it when
you've already found people is somewhere between useless and
counterproductive, it turns out.  People don't want to be sold to
anonymously once they're already talking to you (there's a shocker.)

The people who succeed with these find a way to publicize them loudly
-- to get a lot of people to see them. I had a few people who were
willing to do that for me. But I found out another reason that vibrant
entry-level folks usually do this: people will forward their page
around.

That makes sense. I'm a middle aged guy, and getting people *excited*
about me is harder. I'm sure it can be done, but I needed an angle and
I didn't really have one. Not sure if I'll do this again, but if I do,
I'll need a reason for people to care. "Experienced engineer seeks one
more gig" isn't enough. And I hope never to have a really compelling
hook like "experienced engineer with no savings needs a job right now
to avoid his family starving." Short of that, I'll need some actual
creativity ;-)

## The Late-Career Engineer

Something that affects my results here: I'm a Silicon Valley startup
engineer with over fifteen years of full-time experience. I've been an
architect before, and my current job title is "Architect/Principal
Engineer." While most of this affects any non-entry-level software
engineer trying a "hire me" page, there are a few things specific to
where I'm at.

Let's talk about those.

As John Sonmez writes in Soft Skills, there's a glass ceiling on
full-time software engineering work. For a startup, it's hard to just
get hired at more than $200,000/year in salary under current
conditions. On the one hand, that's a lot of money.  On the other
hand, it's about two junior engineers. If Silicon Valley genuinely
believes in 10x engineers then either it's massively overpaying its
junior engineers, or good senior engineers are a ridiculously good
deal (some of each, I expect.)

There are a few other ways to bring the total up like options, stock,
bonuses and whatnot. Bigger companies are more likely to do so.  But
basically, at some point you hit the "look, we pay you as much as we
ever pay senior engineers" point.

That's not actually true, naturally. There are senior engineers who
make far, far more than that. But they're not hired based on web
pages, recruiters or the standard interviewing process in general.
They're hired based on a friend of an executive knowing that they have
<a href="http://www.kalzumeus.com/2012/01/23/salary-negotiation/">made
or saved enormous amounts of money</a> in similar conditions in the
past.

In other words, they're basically (and often literally) freelancers
rather than full-timers. They have less job security and a very
different interview process, which often doesn't actually involve
interviews.

A fellow like myself can get a nearly unlimited amount of job
security.  I have low-level systems programming on my resume along
with video, mobile devices, Ruby on Rails and distributed storage.
Recruiters knock down my door, I've written books, led teams,
architected large projects, taught classes and given talks at
conferences.

This means I'm likely to have decent offers of employment forever, and
I can stick words like "architect" and "principal" in my job title.

What all of this does *not* buy is the ability to show up and demand
2.5x the salary of a beginning junior engineer rather than the normal
2x. I talked to a lot of companies in the most recent job search, and
it's not just the five or six frontrunners that were skittish about my
salary level. Most of the companies I only talked to briefly basically
said, "nope, nobody's worth that much."

I don't have a good way to quantify how many junior engineers my work
is worth, but Silicon Valley startups don't think there's even the
slightest chance it could be worth the money for three of them.

And that's sight unseen -- I actually interview really well and
receive offers the significant majority of the time. But companies
don't give an interview if somebody would cost that much, regardless
of whether they might be worth it.

I don't mean any of this as "poor me", obviously. When I say, "it's
hard to get hired above $200k/year," I do *not* expect that to elicit
sympathy ;-)

But I can't tell you whether a "hire me" page might get you a raise in
salary, because that's not on the table at my level.

(It could be if I went freelance, about which more later.)

## So, Bad Idea?

I say "not sure if I'll do it again" rather than "I won't do that
again" because I could imagine it working decently in the right
circumstances. I learned some things.

First off, it made me think through what I wanted. That's valuable. It
made me think about what I *didn't* want, which is better yet.

It also got me to think about how I'd tell a manager or a company what
I do that makes or saves money. That's great in pretty much the same
way. Even when we don't write sales pages for ourselves, we're
*always* selling.

As I mentioned above, the page really needs a hook. On-Live could have
been "experienced technical leader looking for next adventure" with
better writing than I put into the first one. That's a pretty weak
hook, but *still* better than what I actually wrote.

It's hard for the standard reason: most people feel uncomfortable
selling themselves. Me too. Coming up with a narrative around somebody
else is easy, and exaggerating a bit feels appropriate. Doing the same
for yourself feels like scumbag lying.

So we'll see. I can imagine other hooks, and perhaps I'll write a
"hire me" page again. The best hooks happen naturally, and are a story
around something real. I could have written as "going out of business,
need a job in a hurry" -- except that would ruin my chances for a good
salary.

I've tried a few obvious things. I get to sell the author/speaker Ruby
angle, but you'd be surprised how little that does to break the glass
ceiling I mentioned.

## Does It Work For Other People?

I basically never see these for established engineers looking for a
gig.  That's partly because recruiters really want to do that for
you. Statistically speaking you shouldn't let them, but it's a lot
easier to let them do it for you instead of writing a page. So I can see
why established engineers don't do this -- it's a lot of work for an
unclear and limited payoff.

You know who uses these and gets good results? Consultants,
contractors and other freelancers.  They need to find work regularly,
they get a big bump in pay for being seen as awesome, and they're
selling to people who don't already know them. They have trouble
getting their page forwarded around too, but a "hire me" page makes
sense for them, for all the same reasons that it usually doesn't for a
random full-time engineer.

Even for them, it's far more about network and word of mouth than
about sales pages. But high-end freelancers usually do both. And a
sales page sets a lot of ground rules for working with you. Even if
you get the actual *gig* by word of mouth, your page is an easy way to
sum up, "here's what working with me is like." It sets expectations.

I don't think it's as useful for a full-timer, but still worth
*something*. A freelancer has to set expectations all the time, while
a full-timer doesn't.

Also, if you were going to use that to set expectations with
coworkers, you'd need to have all the new coworkers read your "hire
me" page, which is a different set of interesting tradeoffs. I
wouldn't recommend that. Writing it for an audience of managers just
makes more sense.

## So What's the Takeaway?

Man, I have no clue.

This is a little-used tactic that fits poorly for what most people do
most of the time. It clearly works for some folks.

I just feel like nobody talks about this, so I'm talking about it.

I feel like nobody tries it much, so I tried it.

If you feel like you got some good out of this post, feel free to tell
people about <a href="http://rebuilding-rails.com">my Ruby on Rails
book</a> or my not-yet-complete <a
href="http://no-more-lost-data.com">database migrations book</a> for
busy web apps.

I'm trying to figure out what the next step in my career looks
like. As far as I can tell, most people make a bunch of random
mistakes to get out of that until something works. I'm documenting
this interesting-looking mistake that I made.

If it winds up getting links to my books out there, that'd be cool
too. Rebuilding Rails is definitely my most successful attempt so far.
